# The-Politics-of-Pants
College thesis on the relation between pants in fashion, specifically on women, examining notable events in the past through key literature to show their disadvantages in society and conception of the body. 
Our Distinction class met for the first time at the end of August 2017, just under two months before Harvey Weinstein, a prominent force in the media, would be indicted in a sexual harassment scandal that influenced other women to speak up and tell their stories about mistreatment in the workplace. Fifty-one more men were accused of sexual harassment by the end of that November (Almukhtar, et al.). More and more women started to find the courage to stand up to their sexual predators and make men pay for their wrongdoings. Rumors declaring 2017 as “The Year of the Woman,” started to circulate, as it was finally the year for women to let their voices be heard when it comes to inequality not just in the workplace, but in the American public sphere. Prior to Weinstein it was uncommon for women to speak up, as women have been oppressed in society for an extended period of time. 2017 would mark ninety-seven years since the 19th Amendment was ratified, giving women the right to vote. The right to vote was supposed to signify a right in society; a respectable role that women were previously denied. However, instead of celebrating ninety-seven years of freedom and justice, women are still trying to catch up.
The perpetual oppression of women throughout history has led to biased gender conceptions that are evident in many ways, but especially as symbolized through fashion. Understanding the rhetoric of both the body and appearance is crucial in understanding women’s participation in public forums. This project examines how women appropriate and perform gendered identities through fashion to gain influence within the public sphere. For years now, women have been told how to act and behave, in addition to what they can wear and how they can wear it. In particular, the inability to wear pants in the public restricted women from establishing their true identities which metaphorically exposes the struggle women have gone through to establish an identity in relation to men and others. Moments in history when women were depicted wearing pants—photographed, illustrated, drawn, featured in a magazine, etc.—represents a statement that connects to a broader disciplinary conversation about women’s rights and the problem of women being viewed as unequal to men in society, because not only has it taken too
long for the acceptance, it has misconstrued and denied particular identities. How women are viewed in 2018 exposes the cultural constructions that have been forced on women. Due to this oppression and the stipulations concerning dress, women have faced challenges in establishing a rhetorical presence.
